
Occasionally, students feel that college application forms do not provide a sufficient opportunity to convey important information about themselves or their accomplishments. If there is something you would like us to know, please inform us below. If you wish to include an additional essay, you may do so.


Possible Topics: Unusual circumstances in your life; Travel or living experiences in other countries; Books that have affected you the most; An academic experience (course, project, paper, or research topic) that has meant the most to you; A list of the books you have read during the past twelve months.


"Place yourself in the middle of the stream of power and wisdom which
animates all whom it floats, and you are without effort impelled to
truth, to right and a perfect contentment." ~Ralph Waldo Emerson,
Spiritual Laws



As a transcendentalist, Emerson found inspiration in places where "the
stream of power and wisdom flow" – where the truth is not sought but
omnipresent – like his woodland cabin at Walden Pond. As a surfer, I
find my own form of "truth" and "contentment" amidst the swells and fog...



It is my belief that paddling out into the lineup through a bank of heavy
mist and suddenly finding yourself unable to see the shore is among the
most surreal and inspiring experiences a person can have. Emerging from
the thickest part of the onshore fog and into the realm of brighter
sunlight outside is like crossing the border into a parallel world
utterly isolated from our daily, land-lubberish lives. The feeling must
be akin to that which drove the ancient Polynesians to their outrigger
canoes, Shackleton to the Antarctic, Emerson to his leaps of insight in
the face of rugged beauty. It is the euphoria and mystery that greet
those who dare to leap where no one has ever looked, who realize that
there is no emotion truer than that which comes from floating adrift in a
flimsy, tiny capsule through a chaotic universe unimaginably larger than
they. It is only when we are lost that we finally find ourselves.



When surfing in the fog I am directly prompted to think philosophically.
I inevitably ponder the counterintuitive truism in quantum mechanics
stating that all that is unseen could be - and in fact is - anything and
everything it can be. As fellow wave riders - strangers and friends -
wink out of my sphere of sight and consciousness, as the steadfast
constructs of society become transient and melt into the muffling
grayness, all standards for comparison and preconceptions of perspective
vanish and my thoughts branch out unfettered. As I ride (or duck beneath)
the waves that silently materialize before me, concepts that have long
eluded me suddenly coalesce. The parallel pathfinding algorithm
underlying my project for the Intel STS came to me not in a laboratory or
classroom but as I watched the branching rivulets of water find their way
down my surfboard as I emerged from underneath a wave (I saw how signals
splitting and rejoining as they propagate through a network can simulate
the shortest path problem in computer science). Often, I find it more
productive to open my mind to the vast ocean's meditative lull than to
study.



Sitting at peace in the stillness between the hollow waves is but one
tributary of the vast "stream of power and wisdom" that animates me, the
great river of physical and spiritual truth that emanates from nature.
Running my hand along the ice-glazed needles of the fallen pine, inhaling
the green-diffracted God-thought-breath of the morning forest, laughing
as I hold wide my windbreaker and lean euphorically into the rushing
torrents of the rain: this timeless rapture is my inspiration, this
intricate, organic splendor a sanctified model for my thoughts. This is
why I paddle out, never knowing exactly where I'll return to shore.


Enlist the expert help of one of our Ivy-League editors. Get individual coaching to make your essay stand out among the crowd. Learn more.


Keep reading more Harvard admissions essays — you can't be too prepared!


Previous EssayNext Essay


Tip: Use the ← → keys to navigate!


This essay comes from AdmitSphere who kindly allowed it to be republished here.


Education is not preparation for life; education is life itself. John Dewey


That's easy — it's the best way to study for AP classes and AP exams! StudyNotes offers fast, free study tools for AP students. Our AP study guides, practice tests, and notes are the best on the web because they're contributed by students and teachers like yourself. Always 100% free.


Follow @StudyNotesApp on Twitter!

