
Interest in math, science, or engineering manifests itself in many forms. Caltech professor and Nobel Laureate Richard Feynman (1918-1988) explained, 'I'd make a motor, I'd make a gadget that would go off when something passed a photocell, I'd play around with selenium'; he was exploring his interest in science, as he put it, by 'piddling around all the time.' In a page, more or less, tell the Admissions Committee how you express your interest, curiosity, or excitement about math, science or engineering.


Over the phone, my dad described what was happening as he lifted the
cover off of the viewing portal. Suddenly, he began to laugh
uncontrollably: the robotic mousetrap I had built out of LEGO Mindstorms
had actually caught a rat! On the other end of the line, my 8-year-old
self also collapsed in laughter. That was the moment when my love for
robotics and engineering became irrevocable.



I have been inventing and building things as long as I can remember;
curious investigation has always led to practical application. Often, as
I lie in bed in the mornings, fragments of thought coalesce into ideas -
like the above machine to capture marauding rodents - and I feel an
irrepressible urge to immediately jump up and implement them. Where the
young Feynman would repair radios - the technology of his day -
throughout elementary school, I would "piddle around" with robot
mechanisms and computers, building and programming fun or useful devices
out of my LEGOs, such as a crude but working photocopier or a machine to
make perfect rainbow stripes on Easter eggs. Retrospectively, I see that
this process cemented my lifelong fascination with creating nifty
devices.



In middle school, my interests expanded from this foundation: I caught
what Feynman referred to as the "computer disease" - an irresistible urge
to play with programming. Leaping out of bed and coding up algorithms -
writing an RSA encryptor or an anagram solver to beat a game - felt just
like constructing robots, except in software you never run out of pieces.
The knowledge I gained through this process empowered me to start my Web
business.



So when high school rolled around, I saw no reason to stop learning math
and science by having fun. I learned group theory by solving Rubik's
cubes and I learned Java by programming the AI for battling digital
robots. Then I joined the robotics team and applied the same class
structures I had designed for virtual robots to the real machines. Here,
I was also able to make use of my old experiences with physical
mechanisms (like differential-ratchet drive shaft bifurcators) to help
our hardware team achieve high functionality with few pieces.



The way I express my love of science, mathematics, and engineering is by
musing on interesting problems and creating cool machines - virtual and
physical. My '09 Science Fair entry - a device that can use the
environment's energy to perform desalination - came from trying to figure
out a way to quickly dry my surfing wetsuit. My Calculus BC project - a
program that uses Fourier transforms to decompose musical chords picked
up by microphone - came from an effort to generate piano sheet music from
audio recordings. Studying the background information necessary to make
these ideas into reality becomes a natural and exciting step as I journey
to create my latest contraption or work with my friends on an enticing
project.



I want to go to Caltech because everybody there has been able to answer
the same question I am answering now - that is, they have been able to
express their fascination with science or engineering in some way or
another. I want to see what talents, passions, and ideas they bring to
the table (or workstation), and join with the school's interconnected community of active thinkers as we expand our knowledge together. I want
to have fun creating our most in-depth and fascinating projects yet.


Footnote: to see the elementary school robots I describe above, such as
the photocopier and rat trap, go to: 


Enlist the expert help of one of our Ivy-League editors. Get individual coaching to make your essay stand out among the crowd. Learn more.


Keep reading more Caltech admissions essays — you can't be too prepared!


Previous EssayNext Essay


Tip: Use the ← → keys to navigate!


This essay comes from AdmitSphere who kindly allowed it to be republished here.


It is the mark of an educated mind to be able to entertain a thought without accepting it. Aristotle


That's easy — it's the best way to study for AP classes and AP exams! StudyNotes offers fast, free study tools for AP students. Our AP study guides, practice tests, and notes are the best on the web because they're contributed by students and teachers like yourself. Always 100% free.


Follow @StudyNotesApp on Twitter!

